.\" Manpage for shell
.\" Contact 378@holbertonschool.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 8 "27 August 2018" "1.0" "simple_shell man page"
.SH NAME
shell \- a limited simple_shell
.SH SYNOPSIS
shell [int ac, char **av, char **env]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.Pshell, developed on August 27th 2018, is version of the .BKen Thompson shell. The B.Ken
Thompson shell was developed in 1971 as the first Unix shell and led to the
developement of all later Unix shell.P
.P.BOverview.B
Shell is a command that reads lines from either a file or the terminal,
 interprets them, and generally executes other commands. It is the program that can be 
launched from within the terminal with ./simple_shell within the simple shell folder.
If no arguments are present and if the standard input of the shell is connected to a terminal,
the shell is considered an interactive shell. An interactive shell generally prompts before 
each command and handles programming and command errors differently.
.P.BArgument List Processing.B
shell does not handle arguments or flags.
.P.BLexical Structure.B
The shell reads input in terms of lines from a file and breaks it up into
words at whitespace (blanks and tabs)
.P.BQuoting.B
Quoting is not used to	remove the special meaning of certain characters or
words to the shell, such as operators, whitespace, keywords, or alias names.
.P.BReserved Words.B
There are no reserved words or words that have special meaning to shell.
.P.BAliases.B
An alias is a name and corresponding value set using the alias built-in
command. Shell does not allow for aliases.
.P.BSimple Commands.B
If a simple command has been recognized, the shell performs the followingactions:
1. Leading words of the form ``name=value'' are stripped off and
assigned to the environment of the simple command.  Redirection
operators and their arguments (as described below) are stripped off and saved for  processing.
2. The remaining   words are expanded as described in the section called
Word Expansions, and the first remaining word is considered the com-
mand name and	the command is located.	 The remaining words are con-
sidered the arguments of the command.  If no command name resulted,
then the ``name=value'' variable assignments recognized in 1)	affect
the current shell.
.P.BRedirections.B
Redirections are not used in shell.
.P.BSearch and Execution.B
There are two types of commands shell functions, built-in commands
.PWhen a shell function is executed,  all of the shell positional parameters
(except $0, which remains unchanged) are set to the arguments of the
shell function.  The variables which are explicitly place in the environment of
the command (by placing assignments to them before the function name)
are made local to the function and are set to the values
given.  Then the command given in the function definition is executed.
The positional parameters are restored to their original values when the
command completes. This all occurs within the current shell.
.PShell built-in commands are executed internally to  the shell, without
spawning a new process. Shell handles three builtins
 - exit
 Exits the shell
 Usage: exit
 No flags.
 - env
 Prints the current environment.
 Uage: env
 No flags.
 - man.
 Prints the man page for shell
 Usage: man shell
 No flags.
.P.BPath Search.B
When locating a command, the shell first looks to see if it has a shell
function by that name.  Then it looks for a built-in command by that
name.  If a built-in command is not found, one of two things happen:
1. Command names containing a slash are simply executed without performing
any searches.
2. The shell searches each entry in the PATH environment variable in
turn for the command. The value of the PATH variable should be a
series of entries separated by colons.  Each entry consists of a
directory name.  The current directory may be indicated implicitly
by an empty directory name, or explicitly by a single period.
.P.BExit Status.B
Errors that are detected by the shell, such as a syntax error, will cause
the shell to exit with a non-zero exit status.  If the shell is not an
interactive shell, the execution of the shell file will be  aborted.  Oth-
erwise the shell will return the exit status of the last command exe-
cuted, or if the exit builtin is used with a numeric argument, it will
return the argument.
.P.BSee Also.B
builtin - chsh - echo - execve - pwd - getline - strtok - strdup - str_nconcat.
.P.BHistory of Shells.B
The Thompson shell, appeared in Version 1 AT&T Unix. It was superseeded in Version 7
AT&T Unix by the Bourne Shell.
.P.BAuthors.B
Our version of shell was written by Damon Nyhan and Heindrick Cheung
.P.BBugs.B
Too many to count. Good luck.